Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory and the US National Nuclear Security Administration’s Office of Radiological Security (ORS) have funded, developed and released a 3-dimensional model of the Gula Regional Hospital, a hypothetical facility for studying the protection of high-activity radioactive sources against theft or sabotage.  The 3D model is intended for unlimited distribution and is not subject to export control.  The 3D model is provided separately from the 3D engine for licensing and export control issues.  The Gula 3D model is intended to be run under the Unity 3D engine and supported with at long term support version (2022.3.27f1) which can be obtained here:  https://unity.com/releases/editor/archive. The 3D model is available at https://github.com/LLNL/Gula. Requests for further information, collaboration or changes/enhancements can be sent via email to Greg White (white6@llnl.gov).

The Gula Regional Hospital is approximately 47,700 square feet (4,500 square meters) floor space, divided amoung 2 floors above ground and a basement.  It has 77 rooms.  The basement contains two high-activity radiation sources, a blood irradiator (assumed to be using a cesium-137 or cobalt-60 source), and a teletherapy device (assumed to be cobalt-60) for treating cancer patients.  These parts of the facility are hardened from a physical security perspective.  The high-activity radiation sources are protected in keeping with ORS and international consensus.  This includes systems for access control, physical protection, video monitoring, and radiation detection.  The combination of these systems ensures a robust detection and response against external and insider threats of theft or sabotage.  The facility also contains a security department with a central alarm station (CAS), medical emergency room, treatment facilities, office space, etc.

The above text is covered under review and release LLNL-MI-872771
The 3D model and video is covered under review and release LLNL-VIDEO-867120

Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory is operated by Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC, for the U.S. Department of Energy, National Nuclear Security Administration under Contract DE-AC52-07NA27344.

This document was prepared as an account of work sponsored by an agency of the United States government. Neither the United States government nor Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC, nor any of their employees makes any warranty, expressed or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product, or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States government or Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC. The views and opinions of authors expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States government or Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC, and shall not be used for advertising or product endorsement purposes.
